# Udacity-Project-Sparkify-Project

# Table of Contents
1. Installation
2. Project Motivation
3. File Description
4. Results
5. Acknowledgements

# Installation
- Pyspark<br>
- Pandas<br>
- Matplotlib<br>
- Seaborn<br>
- Jupyter notebook<br>

# Project Motivation
Sparkify is a fictitious music streaming service, created by Udacity to mimic the datasets generated by companies such as Spotify or Pandora. Millions of users play their favorite songs through such services on a daily basis, either through free tier that plays advertisements, or by using a premium subscription model which offers additional functionalities and is typically ad-free. Users can upgrade or downgrade their subscription plan any time, but also cancel it altogether, so it is very important to make sure the users like the service.<br>
To identify the users that could potentially cancel their account and leave the service. By identifying this population upfront, we could incentivize them by giving them discounts or other rewards. This could make them stick, giving us a loyal customer base which is key for a company’s growth.<br>
In addition, Predicting churn rates is a challenging and common problem that data scientists and analysts regularly encounter in any customer-facing business. I was personally interested in learning and applying Spark technology to the problem that's very relevant in today's scenario.

# File Descriptions
- sparkify.ipynb: includes data preparation, analysis, visualization, and machine learning models for small dataset<br>
- The smaller version used for data exploration (128MB) is available under: s3n://udacity-dsnd/sparkify/mini_sparkify_event_data.json

# Results
The whole article can be found through a Medium post publicly available through [here](https://yaqingchen5.medium.com/sparkify-churn-prediction-with-pyspark-72f983c8e67a).

# Acknowledgements
I'd like to thank Udacity team for the opportunity they provided me to work on the sparkify project, the data in this project mimic the data generated by actual music streaming companies, which is close to real world scenarios. The essential skills I learned from this project is a preparation to take my career to the next level.

